TELCODOCS-2045 - Telco core RDS 4.18 docs (#88622)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/telco-core-cpu-partitioning-and-performance-tuning.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * scalability_and_performance/telco_core_ref_design_specs/telco-core-rds.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="telco-core-cpu-partitioning-and-performance-tuning_{context}"]
= CPU partitioning and performance tuning

New in this release::
* No reference design updates in this release

Description::

> CPU partitioning separates sensitive workloads from general-purpose tasks, interrupts, and driver work queues, improving performance and reducing latency.

Reviewer: Maybe a little clearer:

```suggestion
CPU partitioning improves performance and reduces latency by separating sensitive workloads from general-purpose tasks, interrupts, and driver work queues.
```

> The CPUs allocated to those auxiliary processes are referred to as reserved in the following sections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The CPUs allocated to those auxiliary processes are referred to as _reserved_ in the following sections.
```

> In Hyper-Threaded systems, a CPU is one hyper-thread.

Reviewer: Could this be: In a system with Hyper-Threading enabled, as in [the bullet below](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/88622/files#diff-ba2ef29209f2231699796abfd657a0a8bfdfe52be1016b65e65f195d2d97a885R20)? I think it sounds better.

Limits and requirements::

> * The operating system needs a certain amount of CPU to perform all the support tasks including kernel networking.

Reviewer: So that it doesn't read like the tasks include kernel networking.
```suggestion
* The operating system needs a certain amount of CPU to perform all the support tasks, including kernel networking.
```

** A system with just user plane networking applications (DPDK) needs at least one Core (2 hyper-threads when enabled) reserved for the operating system and the infrastructure components.
* In a system with Hyper-Threading enabled, core sibling threads must always be in the same pool of CPUs.
* The set of reserved and isolated cores must include all CPU cores.
* Core 0 of each NUMA node must be included in the reserved CPU set.
* Low latency workloads require special configuration to avoid being affected by interrupts, kernel scheduler, or other parts of the platform.
For more information, see "Creating a performance profile".

Engineering considerations::
* The minimum reserved capacity (`systemReserved`) required can be found by following the guidance in  link:https://access.redhat.com/solutions/5843241[Which amount of CPU and memory are recommended to reserve for the system in OpenShift 4 nodes?]
* The actual required reserved CPU capacity depends on the cluster configuration and workload attributes.
* The reserved CPU value must be rounded up to a full core (2 hyper-threads) alignment.

> * Changes to CPU partitioning causes the nodes contained in the relevant `MachineConfigPool` to be drain and rebooted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Changes to CPU partitioning causes the nodes contained in the relevant machine config pool to be drain and rebooted.
```

> * The reserved CPUs reduce the pod density, as the reserved CPUs are removed from the allocatable capacity of the OpenShift node.

Reviewer: Per ISG: [Do not use _as_ to mean because or while](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=word-usage#a).

```suggestion
* The reserved CPUs reduce the pod density, because the reserved CPUs are removed from the allocatable capacity of the OpenShift node.
```

* The real-time workload hint should be enabled for real-time capable workloads.
** Applying the real time `workloadHint` setting results in the `nohz_full` kernel command line parameter being applied to improve performance of high performance applications.

> With this parameter, any isolated or burstable pods which do not have the `cpu-quota.crio.io: "disable"` annotation and a proper `runtimeClassName` value are subject to CRI-O rate limiting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this parameter, any isolated or burstable pods that do not have the `cpu-quota.crio.io: "disable"` annotation and a proper `runtimeClassName` value are subject to CRI-O rate limiting.
```
or
```suggestion
With this parameter, any isolated or burstable pods, which do not have the `cpu-quota.crio.io: "disable"` annotation and a proper `runtimeClassName` value, are subject to CRI-O rate limiting.
```

> The setting of this parameter must be aligned with the tradeoff between increased performance, whether pods are correctly annotated, and the potential impact of CRI-O rate limiting.

Reviewer: At first, it sounded to me as if _setting_ were a verb. (As in: The setting of the alarm clock is required for it to wake you up.) 
```suggestion
The value of this parameter must be aligned with the tradeoff between increased performance, whether pods are correctly annotated, and the potential impact of CRI-O rate limiting.
```

* Hardware without IRQ affinity support affects isolated CPUs.
To ensure that pods with guaranteed CPU QoS have full use of allocated CPUs, all hardware in the server must support IRQ affinity.
* OVS dynamically manages its `cpuset` entry to adapt to network traffic needs.
You do not need to reserve additional CPU for handling high network throughput on the primary CNI.

> * If workloads running on the cluster require cgroups v1, you can configure nodes to use cgroups v1 as part of the initial cluster deployment.

Reviewer: [The singular form is used to designate the whole feature](https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/latest/admin-guide/cgroup-v2.html):
```suggestion
* If workloads running on the cluster require cgroup v1, you can configure nodes to use cgroup v1 as part of the initial cluster deployment.
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * scalability_and_performance/telco_core_ref_design_specs/telco-core-rds.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="telco-core-cpu-partitioning-and-performance-tuning_{context}"]
= CPU partitioning and performance tuning

New in this release::
* No reference design updates in this release

Description::
CPU partitioning separates sensitive workloads from general-purpose tasks, interrupts, and driver work queues, improving performance and reducing latency.
The CPUs allocated to those auxiliary processes are referred to as _reserved_ in the following sections.

> In Hyper-Threaded systems, a CPU is one hyper-thread.

Reviewer 2: Does "Hyper-Threaded" really need to be capitalized? It's not in some other places (though it is in others). I'd double check all throughout

Author: https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#hyper-threading

I think "hyper-threaded" is better here. "Hyper-Threading" when referring to the Intel technology specifically.

Limits and requirements::
* The operating system needs a certain amount of CPU to perform all the support tasks, including kernel networking.

> ** A system with just user plane networking applications (DPDK) needs at least one Core (2 hyper-threads when enabled) reserved for the operating system and the infrastructure components.

Reviewer 2: Lowercase core?

* In a system with Hyper-Threading enabled, core sibling threads must always be in the same pool of CPUs.
* The set of reserved and isolated cores must include all CPU cores.
* Core 0 of each NUMA node must be included in the reserved CPU set.
* Low latency workloads require special configuration to avoid being affected by interrupts, kernel scheduler, or other parts of the platform.
For more information, see "Creating a performance profile".

Engineering considerations::

> * The minimum reserved capacity (`systemReserved`) required can be found by following the guidance in  link:https://access.redhat.com/solutions/5843241[Which amount of CPU and memory are recommended to reserve for the system in OpenShift 4 nodes?]

Reviewer 2: Maybe add the (Knowledgebase article) that the SSG recommends? I think you do it elsewhere

* The actual required reserved CPU capacity depends on the cluster configuration and workload attributes.
* The reserved CPU value must be rounded up to a full core (2 hyper-threads) alignment.

> * Changes to CPU partitioning causes the nodes contained in the relevant machine config pool to be drain and rebooted.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Changes to CPU partitioning cause the nodes contained in the relevant machine config pool to be drained and rebooted.
```

* The reserved CPUs reduce the pod density, because the reserved CPUs are removed from the allocatable capacity of the OpenShift node.
* The real-time workload hint should be enabled for real-time capable workloads.
** Applying the real time `workloadHint` setting results in the `nohz_full` kernel command line parameter being applied to improve performance of high performance applications.
When you apply the `workloadHint` setting, any isolated or burstable pods that do not have the `cpu-quota.crio.io: "disable"` annotation and a proper `runtimeClassName` value, are subject to CRI-O rate limiting.
When you set the `workloadHint` parameter, be aware of the tradeoff between increased performance and the potential impact of CRI-O rate limiting.
Ensure that required pods are correctly annotated.
* Hardware without IRQ affinity support affects isolated CPUs.

> To ensure that pods with guaranteed CPU QoS have full use of allocated CPUs, all hardware in the server must support IRQ affinity.

Reviewer 3: maybe to rephrase it to be clearer?
```suggestion
All server hardware must support IRQ affinity to ensure that pods with guaranteed CPU QoS can fully use allocated CPUs.
```

* OVS dynamically manages its `cpuset` entry to adapt to network traffic needs.

> You do not need to reserve additional CPU for handling high network throughput on the primary CNI.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You do not need to reserve an additional CPU for handling high network throughput on the primary CNI.
```

* If workloads running on the cluster use kernel level networking, the RX/TX queue count for the participating NICs should be set to 16 or 32 queues if the hardware permits it.
Be aware of the default queue count.
With no configuration, the default queue count is one RX/TX queue per online CPU; which can result in too many interrupts being allocated.
+
[NOTE]
====

> Some drivers do not deallocate the interrupts even after the queue count is reduced.

Reviewer 3: maybe to rephrase it a little bit?
```suggestion
Some drivers do not deallocate the interrupts even after reducing the queue count.
```

====

* If workloads running on the cluster require cgroup v1, you can configure nodes to use cgroup v1 as part of the initial cluster deployment.
See "Enabling Linux control group version 1 (cgroup v1)" and link:https://www.redhat.com/en/blog/rhel-9-changes-context-red-hat-openshift-workloads[Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9 changes in the context of Red Hat OpenShift workloads].
+
[NOTE]
====

> Support for cgroup v1 will be removed in {product-title} 4.19.

Reviewer 2: Same comment as the other PR about wording this more carefully for future predictions. See details there
